Chapter 29 of Proverbs, King James Version.
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice.
But when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father,
but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance.
The king by judgment establisheth the land,
but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.
A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet.
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare,
but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
The righteous considereth the cause of the poor,
but the wicked regardeth not to know it.
Scornful men bring a city into a snare, but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man,
whether he rage or laugh there is no rest.
The bloodthirsty hate the upright, but the just seek his soul.
A fool uttereth all his mind, but a wise man keepeth it until afterwards.
If a ruler harken to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The poor and deceitful men meet together.
The Lord lighteneth both their eyes.
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor,
his throne shall be established forever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom.
But a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth,
but the righteous shall see their fall.
Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest,
yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.
Where there is no vision, the people perish,
but he that keepeth the law happy is he.
A servant will not be corrected by words,
for though he understand, he will not answer.
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words,
there is more hope for a fool than for him.
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child
shall have him become his son at the length.
An angry man stirreth up strife,
and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
A man's pride shall bring him low,
but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit.
Whoso is partner with a thief, hateth his own soul.
He heareth cursing, and berayeth it not.
The fear of man bringeth a snare,
but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe.
Many seek the ruler's favor,
but every man's judgment cometh from the Lord.
An unjust man is an abomination to the just,
and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.